feat(jobs): simplify snapshot tutorial (#5003)
scaleway/docs-content: tutorials/snapshot-instances-jobs/index.mdx

8. Define the following environment variables:
    - `SCW_ACCESS_KEY`: your API access key.
    - `SCW_SECRET_KEY`: your API secret key.
    - `SCW_DEFAULT_PROJECT_ID`: your Project ID.
    - `SCW_DEFAULT_ORGANIZATION_ID`: your Organization ID.
    - `SCW_DEFAULT_REGION`: concerned region.

For more details about variables used by `cli`, refer to the [CLI config documentation](https://github.com/scaleway/scaleway-cli/blob/master/docs/commands/config.md).

9. In the **Execution** tab, define the desired command: `/scw block snapshot create volume-id=11111111-1111-1111-1111-111111111111` (replace the ID with your desired volume ID).

10. Click **Create job**.

## Running the job

From the **Overview** tab of the Serverless job you just created, click **Actions**, then select **Run job** from the contextual menu.

The execution appears in the **Job runs** section. You can access the logs of your job by clicking <Icon name="more" /> next to the job run ID, and selecting **See on Cockpit**.

## Possible improvements

This tutorial is a lightweight example of how to create recurring snapshots of an Instance. You can go further by:

> - Using it to manage all your Instances' snapshots.
> - Creating backups of your storage disks.
> - Setting up an alerting system in case of unexpected behavior.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Using it to manage all your Instances' snapshots
- Creating backups of your storage disks
- Setting up an alerting system in case of unexpected behavior
```

- Created an [Instance](/instances/how-to/create-an-instance/).

## Creating the Job Definition

1. In the [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com), click **Jobs** in the **Serverless** section of the side menu. The jobs page displays.

2. Click **Create job**. The job creation wizard displays.

3. For **Container Image**, select **External**, and in **Image URL**, set: `scaleway/cli:latest`.

4. Enter a name or use the automatically generated one.

5. Select the region in which your job will be created.

6. Keep the default **resources** values, as this job requires little compute capability.

7. Set **cron schedule** to `0 2 * * *` and select the relevant time zone to run the job every day at 2:00 a.m. Refer to the [cron schedules documentation](/serverless-jobs/reference-content/cron-schedules/) for more information.

8. Define the following environment variables:
    - `SCW_ACCESS_KEY`: your API access key.
    - `SCW_SECRET_KEY`: your API secret key.
    - `SCW_DEFAULT_PROJECT_ID`: your Project ID.
    - `SCW_DEFAULT_ORGANIZATION_ID`: your Organization ID.
    - `SCW_DEFAULT_REGION`: concerned region.

<Message type="note">

>     It's recommended to use Secret Manager to store `SCW_ACCESS_KEY` and `SCW_SECRET_KEY`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    We recommend using Secret Manager to store the `SCW_ACCESS_KEY` and `SCW_SECRET_KEY`.
```

---
meta:

>   title: Create snapshots of an Instance with Serverless Jobs and Scaleway CLI

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  title: Create snapshots of an Instance with Serverless Jobs and the Scaleway CLI
```

>   description: This step-by-step tutorial will help you automate the creation of snapshots of your Instance using Serverless Jobs and Scaleway CLI

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  description: This step-by-step tutorial will help you automate the creation of snapshots of your Instance using Serverless Jobs and the Scaleway CLI
```

content:

>   h1: Create snapshots of an Instance with Serverless Jobs and Scaleway CLI

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  h1: Create snapshots of an Instance with Serverless Jobs and the Scaleway CLI
```

>   paragraph: This step-by-step tutorial will help you automate the creation of snapshots of your Instance using Serverless Jobs and Scaleway CLI

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  paragraph: This step-by-step tutorial will help you automate the creation of snapshots of your Instance using Serverless Jobs and the Scaleway CLI
```

tags: serverless jobs instance snapshot backup image disk storage cli
categories:
  - instances
  - jobs
dates:
  validation: 2025-12-03
  posted: 2024-06-19
---
[Scaleway Serverless Jobs](/serverless-jobs/quickstart/) allows you to create and automate recurring tasks. This tutorial will guide you through the process of creating snapshots of a [Scaleway Instance](/instances/quickstart/) on a recurring schedule using a Serverless Job.

> Serverless Jobs are perfectly adapted for these autonomous tasks, as we do not need autoscaling or exposure via a web server. Refer to the [differences between jobs, containers, and functions](/serverless-jobs/reference-content/difference-jobs-functions-containers/) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Serverless Jobs are perfectly adapted for these autonomous tasks, as we do not need autoscaling or exposure via a web server. Refer to the [documentation on differences between jobs, containers, and functions](/serverless-jobs/reference-content/difference-jobs-functions-containers/) for more information.
```

<Macro id="requirements" />

- A Scaleway account logged into the [console](https://console.scaleway.com).
- [Owner](/iam/concepts/#owner) status or [IAM permissions](/iam/concepts/#permission) allowing you to perform actions in the intended Organization.
- Created an [Instance](/instances/how-to/create-an-instance/).

## Creating the Job Definition

1. In the [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com), click **Jobs** in the **Serverless** section of the side menu. The jobs page displays.

2. Click **Create job**. The job creation wizard displays.

> 3. For **Container Image**, select **External** and in **Image URL**, set: `scaleway/cli:latest`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. For **Container Image**, select **External**, and in **Image URL**, set: `scaleway/cli:latest`.
```

4. Enter a name or use the automatically generated one.

5. Select the region in which your job will be created.

> 6. Keep default **resources** values, as this job requires little compute capability.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. Keep the default **resources** values, as this job requires little compute capability.
```

7. Set **cron schedule** to `0 2 * * *` and select the relevant time zone to run the job every day at 2:00 a.m. Refer to the [cron schedules documentation](/serverless-jobs/reference-content/cron-schedules/) for more information.

8. Define the following environment variables:
    - `SCW_ACCESS_KEY`: your API access key.
    - `SCW_SECRET_KEY`: your API secret key.
    - `SCW_DEFAULT_PROJECT_ID`: your Project ID.
    - `SCW_DEFAULT_ORGANIZATION_ID`: your Organization ID.
    - `SCW_DEFAULT_REGION`: concerned region.

> For more details about variables used by `cli`, please refer to the [cli config documentation](https://github.com/scaleway/scaleway-cli/blob/master/docs/commands/config.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more details about variables used by `cli`, refer to the [CLI config documentation](https://github.com/scaleway/scaleway-cli/blob/master/docs/commands/config.md).
```

9. In the **Execution** tab, define the desired command: `/scw block snapshot create volume-id=11111111-1111-1111-1111-111111111111` (replace the ID with your desired volume ID).

10. Click **Create job**.

## Running the job

From the **Overview** tab of the Serverless job you just created, click **Actions**, then select **Run job** from the contextual menu.

The execution appears in the **Job runs** section. You can access the logs of your job by clicking <Icon name="more" /> next to the job run ID, and selecting **See on Cockpit**.

## Possible improvements

This tutorial is a lightweight example of how to create recurring snapshots of an Instance. You can go further by:
- Using it to manage all your Instances' snapshots.
- Creating backups of your storage disks.
- Setting up an alerting system in case of unexpected behavior.

## Additional resources

> - [Serverless Jobs Documentation](/serverless-jobs/how-to/create-job/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Serverless Jobs Documentation](/serverless-jobs/how-to/create-job/)
```

> - [Other methods to deploy Jobs](/serverless-jobs/reference-content/deploy-job/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Other methods to deploy Jobs](/serverless-jobs/reference-content/deploy-job/)
```

> - [API keys documentation](/iam/how-to/create-api-keys/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [API keys documentation](/iam/how-to/create-api-keys/)
```

> - [CRON schedule reference](/serverless-jobs/reference-content/cron-schedules/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [CRON schedule reference](/serverless-jobs/reference-content/cron-schedules/)
```

Reviewer 2: These bullet points are not full sentences, so should not have periods at the end.
The other example above is debatable.
